Alright, let's talk about deploying.
This is not the easiest thing in the world
because we've got three different pieces
that we need to manage and get up on the internet.
Now normally with an application you either have
one deploy, you have a server-side rendered application
and you just push that thing live.
Or you have two deploys where you have a rest back end.
That's an API and then you have react application
on the front end, so you've got your back end and front end.
In our case we have three because we have the Prisma Server
which also needs a MySQL database.
So that is going to be providing,
that's where we deploy our schema to.
Then we have our Yoga Server which,
that has our Mutation and Query Resolvers in it.
And then we have our React application
which is actually a node server that runs next.js
and that makes sure that we can do
all of our server-side rendering.
So you get three different things to deploy.
We're gonna jump in on that.
First thing we're gonna do is get
our Prisma Server up and running.
Then we'll do our Yoga Server and then
we'll do our React application.
So let's host this on Heroku.
The reason I'm choosing Heroku for this one is
because it will support both the front end
of our application as well as our back end
and Prisma has a tight integration with Heroku
which is really nice.
So what we want to do here is
sign into your Prisma back end.
These things, the servers that Prisma gives you,
these are just development servers.
You can't use these in production.
You actually need to go ahead and host your own.
However you can use the Prisma dashboard
in order to manage the data and actually interface
with your Prisma which is pretty nifty.
So we're going to go ahead and click on Add A Server.
You also have the ability to just create a Host It server
and put in your own MySQL database info in here.
But we are going to be clicking on Add A Server.
And we're gonna create it, call it Sick Fits Production.
And then we will say a description.
Prod of Sick Fits.
You might have to call it something different
'cause I might have just taken it.
We're gonna go ahead and create a server.
We're going to, you can connect to an existing database
which if you connect to, you can host your own databases.
Or you can create a new database which is on Heroku.
So go ahead and you're gonna go do that.
And then you need to sign in with your Heroku account.
You can select the type of database,
right now it's just postgreSQL,
but it should be MySQl and everything in the future.
You want to shoot where you want it to go.
And then I just want 10,000 rows for the hobby plan.
Obviously you can scale that up if you need more.
Run a click create database.
And you see that our database has been successfully created.
And now we need to set up the server,
so go ahead and click on set up server.
We're also going to use Heroku for this so click on that.
We're going to use the free, gonna create a server.
And you can imagine that if you were not going
through this little dialogue then you would
also need to set up a MySQL database
or get one from somewhere like Amazon AWS.
And then also set up a server that's
going to sit on top of your database here
and that's exactly where we're
putting both of these things on Heroku.
After a couple of minutes it told me
the Prisma server was successfully deployed,
you can go ahead and view the server.
And here it is, here's our Sick Fitz,
it looks like it's booting.
After a couple of minutes this shows up as healthy.
You can click through to it and you will see
that we have all the information here.
We now go to our services.
So we have this server here but we don't have
the service which is our actual application.
So what we need to do is deploy
our application to this service.
So let's go into our backend and are going
to open it up on our terminal as well.
And normally when we deploy or run npm run deploy,
and that's going to deploy to our basic one.
But if you were to check out all of the commands
under Prisma if you have globally installed Prisma,
you say Prisma deploy, dash-dash-help.
You see all of the flats that we have for Prisma
are dry-run, env-file, force.
We are using the env-file because
if you look at your Prisma-dot-yml
we have environmental variables which we store
in this variables-dot-env file.
So one kinda cool thing that we can do
is if you run Prisma deploy or npm run deploy
and then past the dash-dash-dash-n flag,
the dash-dash tells npm to append the following things
to the command that you're about to run.
And then we are appending the dash-n to the end.
And that will run Prisma deploy, a regular command.
Hold on, hold, Prisma deploy, env-file variables the env.
And then we pass the dash-n onto the end.
And now Prisma says would you like to set up a new one
or use and deploy an existing server?
And you can see there is our Sick Fits production.
I'm going to click that.
Chose a name for your service.
I'm gonna call it Sick Fits Prod.
Stage: Prod.
And it looks like it pushed everything
up and we should be able to take a look.
Refresh our list of services here.
And now we see our production in here.
And there's gonna be no data in here
but you do see that our schema has
now been pushed up to this.
If you head back to your Prisma-dot-yml file
you'll see that it commented out our old one here.
And then also put in our new endpoint
which is the Heroku app that we're going towards.
We also do want to put a secret on that
so I'm going to actually comment that out.
So npm run deploy, don't use the dash-n there.
It's going to deploy it to our
Heroku now with the new secret.
Looks like everything works.
So that is deploying our back end to our Heroku.
That's probably the easiest way you can do it.
Obviously you can host, Prisma's all open source.
You can host your own, there's docker images
that you'll be able to use but that for me
is the most straight forward way to go ahead
and deploy the back end.
So let's get into using our Yoga Server.
We're gonna put that on Heroku as well.
And then finally our React application.